## Sylt Meeting Abstract

Multilayer network analyses, which have been applied to many kinds of
networks from physics to economics, are starting to find inroads into
the analysis of ecological networks, such as food webs. However, there
are non-trivial informatics challenges that ecological modeling and
analysis inherently face that are compounded by the synthesis of
multiple data streams. Data provenance, which is a mathematically
formalized approach for tracking the generation and transformation of
data, presents a way forward for improving the transparency of
informatics challenges and improve the repeatability and
reproducibility of research. In this study, we apply multilayer
network analysis to replicate spatiotemporal samples of empirical food
webs that develop in the pitcher-shaped leaves of the northern pitcher
plant, *Sarracenia purpurea*. beginning with empty pitchers,
proceeding through a growing season, and concluding with the onset of
winter, the datasets illustrate stochastic spatial and temporal
variation in the directional assembly of the food webs. The workflow
begins with merging spreadsheets with numerous missing values and
observation errors, and web-based climatic data, into a synthetic,
"clean" working dataset. The clean data are then visualized and
analyzed with software tools developed in two programming languages (R
and Matlab). We use a new tool that we have developed-- RDataTracker--
to track the provenance of the organization, synthesis, analysis, and
modeling of the pitcher-plant food-web data, and explore the
possibilities for providing greater transparency of the overall
informatics pipeline that simultaneously can improve scientific
inference.

